Dawn Abriel: Good morning.
Good morning.
Dawn Abriel: I'm Dr brielle and I assume you're Lindsay
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes, ma'am. I am
Dawn Abriel: Let's see, try now.
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes, my name is Lindsay
Dawn Abriel: Okay, great.
Dawn Abriel: So I was just doing your tart chart. I don't think I've ever met anyone who had so many prescribers
Dawn Abriel: On high now 29 you have 29 prescribers
Dawn Abriel: That's I think it's a record.
Lyndsey Lorett: Oh my gosh, that's not good.
Dawn Abriel: Most people have to
Dawn Abriel: So,
Dawn Abriel: Let's see. I can do that later.
Dawn Abriel: Oh, I see what happened. Let me just
Dawn Abriel: I'm just trying to
Dawn Abriel: Okay, July 4 of july 4. That's what I did wrong. I'll be right back.
Dawn Abriel: Forth.
Dawn Abriel: Now let's see if it pulls it up.
Dawn Abriel: I will get to your chart.
Dawn Abriel: I didn't get a chance to look over the surveys that you did, but I'll do those at the end.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, is have you been in programs before
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes, I have.
Dawn Abriel: What number program is this for you.
Lyndsey Lorett: Too.
Dawn Abriel: So this is your third or
One.
Okay.
Dawn Abriel: And where are you living
Lyndsey Lorett: I live in Gallup New Mexico. Okay.
So,
Dawn Abriel: That's
Dawn Abriel: 210 miles away.
Dawn Abriel: This is his patients.
Dawn Abriel: And what, what can you tell me about what worked for the other programs. How did you like being in them.
Lyndsey Lorett: I think when I have structure and consistency. It helps a lot.
Dawn Abriel: To get a lot of that when you were a kid.
Lyndsey Lorett: Um, no, not so much.
Lyndsey Lorett: Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: That's, that's usually the case.
Dawn Abriel: When was the last time you had an opioid I see that you're on some buprenorphine already. So did you have a sub this morning.
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes, I did. And
Dawn Abriel: How much do you take
Lyndsey Lorett: I take three pills three eight milligram pills a day. Um, I would definitely love to go down, or even get off of it. Um, I've had a really rough last year. This last year medically um has been extremely difficult. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: I believe it. People don't that it's a funny thing about buprenorphine. It really does save lives. I mean, you're not out hustling, you're not outscoring you're not out at risk for having fun and they'll drop down a pill. Right.
Dawn Abriel: And dying.
Dawn Abriel: Right but 24 milligrams of buprenorphine is a huge amount of medicine.
Lyndsey Lorett: I know that's what they say. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: So here, let's think of it this way. One milligram of buprenorphine.
Dawn Abriel: Is equal to 20 to 40 milligrams of morphine.
Lyndsey Lorett: Oh my gosh, yeah.
Dawn Abriel: So if you came in with a dislocated shoulder and I wanted to give you some pain. I'm an emergency doctor by training. So if I wanted to help you with a pain in your shoulder. I'd give you two milligrams of morphine.
Dawn Abriel: You can even break up a pill to get it that small of the buprenorphine. But because over the years, you develop tolerance.
Dawn Abriel: Yes. Have a lot of receptors.
Dawn Abriel: That when you don't have that much medicine, the receptors are naked and they're screaming for their medicine and
Dawn Abriel: Now the another good thing about buprenorphine is you don't develop tolerance to it.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, but it has a lot of side effects, it decreases your immune system.
Lyndsey Lorett: I, I am struggling so much with my immune system right now because of my open wound and all of the surgeries.
Lyndsey Lorett: I've been on I've bought Murcia six different times over the last year.
Lyndsey Lorett: Well, so many antibiotics over and over and over. And it wasn't until last week that they finally said you don't have mercy in your wound growing. So now I can finally move forward on fixing the wound.
Dawn Abriel: Wow.
Dawn Abriel: Sounds like you've been through a lot. So I'm yes I'm not only do I encourage it. I, I really think it's irresponsible for a doctor to not help people get
Dawn Abriel: To taper down even that will
Dawn Abriel: Not tapering off they've, they've got a taper down. So let's make sure you end up in one of my groups because I'm more aggressive about that than other people are
Lyndsey Lorett: I night really truly want it.
So bad.
Dawn Abriel: Are you working
Lyndsey Lorett: I can't because I have my intestines outside my body. I can't work.
Dawn Abriel: Gotcha. So, and are you a morning person, by any chance,
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes, I am. I have a 14 month old.
Dawn Abriel: Ah, OK.
Dawn Abriel: Would you be able to do Tuesday morning at seven o'clock for a group
Dawn Abriel: Absolutely. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: I think you'll like the group.
Dawn Abriel: The therapist.
Dawn Abriel: Is happens to be my daughter.
Dawn Abriel: She
Dawn Abriel: She lives in Florida. I live in Santa Fe. So we run three groups. A week together where she's the therapist and
Dawn Abriel: So means I get to interact with her some to
Lyndsey Lorett: It is a very good therapist.
Lyndsey Lorett: Is she
Dawn Abriel: Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: That's good. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: And and you know I am biased, but
Dawn Abriel: I do work with other therapists, too. So I do get to see how skilled and she's been involved with
Dawn Abriel: Addiction for 16 years now. So she's got a lot of experience.
Wow.
Dawn Abriel: So you were never an IV drug user
Lyndsey Lorett: No, never.
Dawn Abriel: Any overdoses.
No.
Dawn Abriel: I'll get my cursor to go where it belongs.
Dawn Abriel: And no medical complications from the opioid use
Dawn Abriel: No. Okay. And no legal issues.
Lyndsey Lorett: No legal issues.
Dawn Abriel: All right.
Dawn Abriel: And was your life kind of centered around the opioids for a while.
Dawn Abriel: You get them how to, yes.
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes. As a result of a bunch of surgeries.
Dawn Abriel: And no doctor showed you how to taper off the opioids.
Lyndsey Lorett: No. No one ever even tried, they just kept throwing more pills at me. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: That's where I think
Dawn Abriel: I we really failed the public
Dawn Abriel: The medical profession failed you.
Lyndsey Lorett: Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: How old were you when you did you ever start marijuana or cocaine at a younger
Lyndsey Lorett: Age. No, no, I didn't even I don't even drink alcohol.
Dawn Abriel: Well that's at least you've not your, your system isn't compromised because of that. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: Has the opiate use resulted in loss of relationships or work.
Lyndsey Lorett: No.
Dawn Abriel: Patient can't
Dawn Abriel: Surgical
Dawn Abriel: All right.
Dawn Abriel: And are sleeping anxiety issues for you.
Lyndsey Lorett: I do it. Yes, I found my husband last last year. This week he passed away. Um, and I've struggled so much this last year to actually go to sleep without replaying it in my head.
Yep. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: I think we have four people in my groups who've had that happen.
Dawn Abriel: Really. Yep.
Dawn Abriel: And and it they, you know, they say the same thing, it, it, they play it in their head and that's you really want to talk to go into your about that because that you can get over that.
Lyndsey Lorett: Can I
Dawn Abriel: Oh, yes, yes, yes, you can. You can get over it.
Dawn Abriel: You'll never forget. You'll, you know, the loss will always be there.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, but the trauma that intrudes on you that can be calmed down.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, that you can be in your life you'll always remember him. It'll never be a nice memory. You know that the ending
Dawn Abriel: It won't
Dawn Abriel: It won't be
Dawn Abriel: Dictating
Dawn Abriel: Your sleep.
Yes.
Dawn Abriel: So,
Dawn Abriel: Have you ever been hospitalized for a behavioral health issue.
No.
Dawn Abriel: And
Dawn Abriel: What's your stress level right now, mild, moderate, or severe
Lyndsey Lorett: I would say moderate
Dawn Abriel: And your self esteem.
Lyndsey Lorett: I you have pretty good self esteem.
Dawn Abriel: Sure helps
Dawn Abriel: Okay, now this will probably take us the most time. Let's go over your medical history. First of all, do you know your blood type.
Dawn Abriel: Looks like you're frozen.
Dawn Abriel: I'll wait for you to come back into the
Lyndsey Lorett: Can you hear me.
Lyndsey Lorett: I can I do not know what happened.
Dawn Abriel: Well, I asked you if you know your blood type.
Lyndsey Lorett: I do not know my blood type.
Okay.
Dawn Abriel: So why don't we start with you telling me what your medical problems are
Lyndsey Lorett: Um,
Lyndsey Lorett: Well, so I had the C section in
Lyndsey Lorett: In December, and seven days later, it just split open the whole thing.
Lyndsey Lorett: I we tried for several months to close it with a wound vac it kept getting infected. So the VAC wouldn't work.
Lyndsey Lorett: Um, and then when my husband passed away. We moved and I developed a hernia in there and now the hernia so big it's coming out of the wound. Yeah. So my medical issue would be that
Lyndsey Lorett: Not many doctors want to fit the surgery.
Lyndsey Lorett: They
Lyndsey Lorett: Hate it.
Dawn Abriel: holds no good way there's there's really, they have mash that they can use, but they're, they're not they fail so much so often.
Lyndsey Lorett: I just don't understand why someone can't can't just fix it.
Dawn Abriel: Because any
Dawn Abriel: The any pressure on it pulls it apart.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, so really the
Dawn Abriel: The only true way to prevent it from happening, is to
Dawn Abriel: lose so much weight.
Dawn Abriel: They just, it looks like it from your picture. It looks like it so it, it would be like, get it fixed and continue to lose a lot of weight then it won't open up because then it will there's time enough for it to scar. So there's a funny thing that happens about scars.
Dawn Abriel: And if I if I if I close out. How do I show you this. If, if I close a wound on the hand.
Dawn Abriel: Uh huh. I want to say the wound went across my hand. But that's not the way the hand moves the hand moves cross ways not up and down.
Dawn Abriel: Right scar tissue when it gets laid down, it gets laid down into a mesh just every which way, but the tissue is lined up in
Dawn Abriel: Perpendicular in line with its action of movement.
Dawn Abriel: So when when they repair your belly.
Dawn Abriel: The scar tissue is going every which way, and only a few of the fibers are going in the right direction. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: So there aren't very many fibers that will that will hold it together.
Lyndsey Lorett: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: But if but with enough time, all of those other fibers around will
Dawn Abriel: coalesce they'll come together and give you a good, a good strong scar.
Lyndsey Lorett: So are you saying that it would be better to Naturally, naturally, let it heal.
Dawn Abriel: No. Well, no. And please, you know, I'm an emergency doctor. I'm not a surgeon. Right. So I learned this a long time ago. I've been at a medicine, medical school for decades. I, I read up but you know you really want to go by what it you know and and I assume you've gotten second opinions and
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes, every you know know when no one. They say it's like a 12 hour surgery to redo my whole abdomen, including a tummy tuck.
Lyndsey Lorett: And because I've had Murcia, so many times. Only in the wound. My nose doesn't test positive note. Nowhere else test positive but they can't close the wound with Murcia in it.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, and
Lyndsey Lorett: So they keep throwing antibiotics at me that feel like I feel like crap. When I take
Dawn Abriel: It up. I bet you do. And without having all the good gut flora without having the, the natural
Dawn Abriel: lactobacillus that the needed in your gut. People get depressed because their gut flora is altered.
Lyndsey Lorett: I am taking the most expensive probiotics. You can find
Dawn Abriel: Well, expensive. The trick is the freshest
Dawn Abriel: That's the trick the freshest when you go by him and they should be the ones that are in the refrigerator section.
Dawn Abriel: You look to see the one that has
Dawn Abriel: The longest out
Dawn Abriel: Date.
Lyndsey Lorett: Oh, OK.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, it's freshest and you can you keep them in the refrigerator.
Okay.
Lyndsey Lorett: All right, my
Dawn Abriel: My regime in the morning is I take a probiotic with Kieffer
Dawn Abriel: Kieffer Kieffer has a lot of lactobacillus in it. So I take my vitamins and my probiotic in the morning and I make sure that sometime during the day. I almost always have a salad and I put
Dawn Abriel: They make these fancy sauerkraut, like they make fermented beats.
Dawn Abriel: Yes. Anything, anything that's fermented is going to have those good bacteria in them.
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes.
Dawn Abriel: So i don't i don't like sauerkraut by itself by just put a tablespoon and mix it in my salad, and I don't even taste it.
Lyndsey Lorett: There you go.
Dawn Abriel: So just a thought.
Lyndsey Lorett: So, and I yeah
Um,
Dawn Abriel: Have you had any other surgeries.
Lyndsey Lorett: And yes, they last year, both June and July, they tried to do skin grafts to cover the hernia. Um, and then they attached a wound vac after the skin graft and it sucked the skin graft right off.
Dawn Abriel: Great planning.
Lyndsey Lorett: Yeah. No, it was not
Lyndsey Lorett: What I have done really really well with only taking pain medicine during while I'm in the hospital. And I think once or twice. I've gotten home with a prescription, but my in laws literally write down the time and and they hold the medicine and
Dawn Abriel: If it happens again. Work with me. There's no reason why you should have to switch over.
That's what I was
Lyndsey Lorett: Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: But, but here's the thing. Let me, let me show you a picture.
Dawn Abriel: I really, I should make sure I've got an exam, right after years so
Dawn Abriel: I can't spend a whole lot of time.
Lyndsey Lorett: I do really well with ibuprofen, um, I usually know when I'm infected when the ibuprofen doesn't help.
Dawn Abriel: Can pull the pain. Yeah, yeah.
Lyndsey Lorett: And if you had asked me many years ago, I would tell you, ibuprofen doesn't work.
Lyndsey Lorett: But it's actually been a really big help. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: And that's wonderful.
Dawn Abriel: It's just that it has its own risks.
Lyndsey Lorett: Of taking every day. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, it really wreaks havoc on your gut lining and on your kidneys.
Lyndsey Lorett: The pain, though it's, you know, at the end of the day, I usually only take two doses once in the morning and once at night.
Lyndsey Lorett: Um,
Lyndsey Lorett: I can't, I can't do it without it.
Dawn Abriel: For what you want as long it right as long as you have to, you have to, it's just
Dawn Abriel: As soon as you can. You, you want to not be on it.
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes, I agree.
Dawn Abriel: So look at this graph.
Okay.
Dawn Abriel: This is a you know a representation of on the left here are the
Dawn Abriel: Percentage of opioid receptors that are occupied
Dawn Abriel: Okay so appear is 85%
Dawn Abriel: Okay. And down here is the dosage of buprenorphine.
Dawn Abriel: Okay. So do you see how flat. This line is here, up at the top.
Dawn Abriel: Yes, that this means that you're 24 milligrams. If you bring the line up, you're
Dawn Abriel: Occupying 82 83% of your opioid receptors.
Lyndsey Lorett: Oh my god.
Dawn Abriel: And there's no room to give you something more so that you can like in the in the or or after a surgery that you there is nothing that really addresses the pain.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah. And if you went up a whole eight milligrams, you're only occupying 85
Dawn Abriel: But we don't get the dose down real slowly real slowly and you're saying one milligram
Lyndsey Lorett: Uh huh.
Dawn Abriel: You can go up by one milligram
Lyndsey Lorett: I have
Dawn Abriel: Be way up here.
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes.
Dawn Abriel: So there's just all this room for pain relief.
Lyndsey Lorett: Wow.
Dawn Abriel: When you're at the lower doses, that's one of the main reasons why I have people get off the medicine because they get in car accidents, they go for surgery and they're at these really high doses for, you know, six, seven years.
Dawn Abriel: And they have to be put on Ketamine or propofol or something really outrageous so
Lyndsey Lorett: Not all I don't do that. I don't want to do that. I would rather work.
Dawn Abriel: I hear you.
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes.
Dawn Abriel: I hear you. Okay, so we will work on that.
Dawn Abriel: Okay. Um, so I really should get through this. Or I'm gonna
Dawn Abriel: Have any other surgeries. You've got your tonsils your gallbladder.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, your appendix.
Yeah.
Lyndsey Lorett: Yep. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: And any other medical problems.
No.
Dawn Abriel: Is
Dawn Abriel: Looks like, Oh, I see. Did you start to come into the program, another time.
Lyndsey Lorett: I did right before I found out I was pregnant.
Dawn Abriel: Hmm.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, so some of this is already well the OB history is wrong.
Dawn Abriel: Let me go fix that. So you've been pregnant. How many times
Two times
Dawn Abriel: And you have one live birth.
Lyndsey Lorett: I have two children.
Lyndsey Lorett: A 10 year old and a 14 month old yes oh that's spreading it out.
Lyndsey Lorett: It is spreading it out.
Dawn Abriel: Is the 10 year old excited like likes the baby.
Lyndsey Lorett: Oh, of course. Yes. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: I had, I have lots of siblings and I enjoyed the young ones.
Dawn Abriel: So, nothing's changed with your, your, your father's still dead. I assume IN YOUR MOTHER'S ALIVE AND in good health.
Dawn Abriel: Yes. Alright, so now I'm going to run through the really long list of
Dawn Abriel: It's called a review of systems. So, stop me if any of them apply to you.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, fever, night sweats chills cold intolerance, fatigue, weight gain drinking a lot eating lot red eyes double vision, blurred vision loss of vision changing vision difficulty hearing, hearing loss ear drainage ringing in your ears.
Dawn Abriel: Bloody nose chronic congestion sore lips are mouse or tongue neck swelling, stiffness or pain, difficulty breathing cough, shortness of breath, chest pain.
Dawn Abriel: Palpitations can't read lying down swelling in your legs varicose veins, diarrhea, constipation, vomiting, rectal pain, abdominal pain, do you have abdominal pain for me. I
Lyndsey Lorett: Do have a domino pain. Yes.
Dawn Abriel: painful urination blood and your urine being too much pain to little change in hair skin and nail texture new moles itching or dry skin.
Dawn Abriel: Muscle pain back pain tender points muscle cramps limp headaches vertigo lightheadedness painting numbness, tingling weakness tremor lack of coordination difficulty speaking
Dawn Abriel: Judging mood depression sadness interfering with function anxiety.
Dawn Abriel: Do you
Yes.
Dawn Abriel: nervousness and sleep disturbance
Dawn Abriel: Yes. And is that falling asleep or staying asleep.
Lyndsey Lorett: No, it's falling asleep.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, the opioids themselves mess with your sleep center. So if you had sleep problems before the opioids, make it worse.
Lyndsey Lorett: This is crazy.
Lyndsey Lorett: I know
It's not fair.
Dawn Abriel: Suicidal thoughts hopelessness seeing or hearing things that aren't there are easy bruising.
Dawn Abriel: No. Okay. And the medicines that you're on Rd
Dawn Abriel: Oh,
Dawn Abriel: Let me get this straight.
Dawn Abriel: Are you taking the buprenorphine three times a day.
Yes.
Lyndsey Lorett: Who
Dawn Abriel: Who told you to take it that way.
Lyndsey Lorett: Um, but all the doctors that have prescribed it
Dawn Abriel: Okay.
Lyndsey Lorett: It's not good to take it that way.
Dawn Abriel: Well here's the thing.
Dawn Abriel: It's a medicine. It was created in 1998 99 came on the market and it was meant to be.
Dawn Abriel: A pain medicine for end stage cancer patients.
Dawn Abriel: And they made it to be long acting so it stays in your system.
Dawn Abriel: For 24 to 36 hours, which means you have to take all the medicine at one time to achieve what we call the blood level, it has to have enough in your system to carry you through that time. So you take eight milligrams and it, it starts to get up to the blood level comes down.
Dawn Abriel: You take another eight and it starts to you're not getting all the medicine right
Lyndsey Lorett: Did not know that
Dawn Abriel: Most doctors don't know this. I don't know why.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, so here's the thing I want you to start taking it first thing in the morning.
Lyndsey Lorett: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: But we don't know if three is too many
Dawn Abriel: And you'll know if three is too many if you get kind of whoa fuzzy headed
Dawn Abriel: And if that happens, back off by like a half a pill.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, looking two and a half.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, my
Lyndsey Lorett: Thinking taken three all at once is a lot
Dawn Abriel: You think so, but it really isn't.
Lyndsey Lorett: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: All right, isn't. I know it sounds like it but but it isn't because you you're never really getting up to where it needs to be to occupy all of the opioid receptors that have developed
Lyndsey Lorett: That makes sense. But towards the end of the day when the pain is worse. I find the subtext working the best
Dawn Abriel: Right. That's because the first and second dose. There's some of that still there.
Dawn Abriel: But let's see. I mean, you might be an exception, but my guess is that three is going to be fine.
Dawn Abriel: Okay. Um, and it might even be too much.
Lyndsey Lorett: Okay. Well, that would be great. So
Dawn Abriel: Well, yeah, then you don't have to remember it.
Lyndsey Lorett: Three times a day. Yes.
Dawn Abriel: And I
Lyndsey Lorett: Learned a lot
Lyndsey Lorett: From you.
Dawn Abriel: These questions are meant for people that might have dementia. So you bathe yourself dress yourself feed yourself. Go to the bathroom by yourself and go from one place to another by yourself. Yes. You know who you are, where you are, what time of day it is. You can make your
Dawn Abriel: Own decisions, you have a memory that's appropriate for your age.
Dawn Abriel: You can focus your attention and you can read
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes, well,
Dawn Abriel: Keep it that way.
Please.
Dawn Abriel: Do you know how to get your pulse.
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes, I do.
Dawn Abriel: Would you get it for me and I'll tell you when to start counting
Okay.
Lyndsey Lorett: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Good. Hold on, and count out loud. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Dark now.
123467 810
Dawn Abriel: Okay, and
Dawn Abriel: How tall are you,
Lyndsey Lorett: Five, four,
Dawn Abriel: And your current weight.
Lyndsey Lorett: I weigh 193
Lyndsey Lorett: When I gave birth last December.
Lyndsey Lorett: I weighed 286 pounds.
Dawn Abriel: You have lost a lot of weight.
I have
Dawn Abriel: And and this has been intentional.
Lyndsey Lorett: I'm you know i'm still I'm juicing and eating protein is what goes in my body and I'm not eating the way I used to, um, because it hurts to eat.
Lyndsey Lorett: Sure, yeah.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah you want you want just mushy stuff moving through there.
Lyndsey Lorett: I want to make it count. Make it count when it goes in.
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: So let's do a little physical exam.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, up to the camera. Pull your eyelid down and let me see under your eyelid. Good. Okay, let go, relax. Make your eyes go all the way to the right.
Dawn Abriel: Left.
Dawn Abriel: Up.
Dawn Abriel: Down. Breathe out of either side of you knows
Dawn Abriel: Open your mouth. Stick your tongue out at me. Move it side decide, oh, you have a blue tang.
Lyndsey Lorett: I know, I'm sorry.
Dawn Abriel: you decorate your tongue.
Lyndsey Lorett: Now not obviously
Dawn Abriel: Okay. Bite down, you don't have any job pain.
Lyndsey Lorett: No.
Dawn Abriel: It normally good
Dawn Abriel: Yeah. And let me see you swallow.
Dawn Abriel: Okay. Take a big deep breath.
Dawn Abriel: Right.
Dawn Abriel: And let me see you put your ear to your shoulder both sides.
Dawn Abriel: And chin. The shoulder both sides.
Dawn Abriel: Great. Hey back had forward.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, let me see you pull your fingers against each other.
Lyndsey Lorett: Okay, like that.
Dawn Abriel: Perfect, yeah. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: Okay. And is there anyone around where you are right now.
Lyndsey Lorett: No. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Can you pull your shirt up and let me see your belly.
Lyndsey Lorett: Oh, you want to see it. Yeah, um,
Dawn Abriel: How you all bandaged up
Lyndsey Lorett: em all bandaged up
Lyndsey Lorett: But
Dawn Abriel: Let me just see the bandages.
Lyndsey Lorett: Oh, okay, sure.
Dawn Abriel: I'll just say that I saw it.
Okay.
Lyndsey Lorett: is weird.
Dawn Abriel: I know, I'm sorry.
Dawn Abriel: Okay. Perfect. Alright, so there is no
Dawn Abriel: We drain you jerk.
Lyndsey Lorett: Oh, there's always drainage. I have to change it sometimes twice a day.
Lyndsey Lorett: Okay, the amount of drainage.
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: And in a car. This is hard. But if you could bring your camera down and let me just see that there's no swelling in your ankles.
Lyndsey Lorett: Oh my ankles. Okay. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: You might have to move your chair back
Dawn Abriel: It's okay, that's a good way to do it.
Dawn Abriel: Perfect. I see that the other one, the
Lyndsey Lorett: Other one
Dawn Abriel: little trickier.
Dawn Abriel: Good. Okay. Good enough. Thank you.
Dawn Abriel: And do you have
Lyndsey Lorett: Any tattoos I do
Dawn Abriel: How many
Lyndsey Lorett: I have to
Dawn Abriel: To and where they professionally done
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes.
Dawn Abriel: And no complications.
Lyndsey Lorett: Know, they're very old was a young mistake.
Man.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah. Yep. Okay. So let's talk about the program.
Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Oh, you're, you are not a smoker, not a drinker now. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: So I'm going to say, I'm not sure how to code this
Dawn Abriel: Open add domino
Dawn Abriel: Wound waiting for closure.
Dawn Abriel: So have you also gotten on the internet and trolled around looking for
Dawn Abriel: Anyone who's doing research on these open
Dawn Abriel: Wounds anyone who's doing
Dawn Abriel: Experimental stuff.
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes, I found a doctor in Salt Lake
Lyndsey Lorett: And we traveled to see him and he looked at it and he just didn't feel confident and fixing it. He said, there's a number of things that could go wrong and he wasn't willing to risk it. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: bummer.
I know
Lyndsey Lorett: I was, I did.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah yeah
Dawn Abriel: Well, don't stop because either by the people out there who who who are thinking of new ways to do it and and keep losing the weight because I you if you have a whole but what we call redundant tissue.
Dawn Abriel: A lot of loose loose tissue. They're going to feel a lot more comfortable about pulling it together and knowing that it's not going to have a lot of strain on it.
Lyndsey Lorett: Right.
Dawn Abriel: Right. Yeah. Are you able to do any abdominal muscle. Oh, see, now you're. This means that your abdominal muscles are getting thinner and thinner.
Lyndsey Lorett: I know it is
Lyndsey Lorett: It's just gone on too long, it's not normal for people to have wounds like this this long.
Dawn Abriel: It. No, no.
Dawn Abriel: I'm, I'm just really feel sorry for you.
Lyndsey Lorett: And I'm young and I enjoy working and I enjoy having a productive life.
Lyndsey Lorett: And yeah, I'm my time is filled with going with doctors and I'm I don't want to live like that anymore. So I am working very hard.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah yeah well I hope we're able to make that
Dawn Abriel: Happen even more. Yes. Where were you born and raised.
Lyndsey Lorett: Farmington New Mexico.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, and about how much caffeine. Do you take in a day.
Lyndsey Lorett: Oh, I do. I do drink a lot of caffeine.
Lyndsey Lorett: I would say maybe 300 milligrams. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: And how far did you go in school.
Lyndsey Lorett: I have my associates and then I have
Lyndsey Lorett: A trade program certificate
Dawn Abriel: In what
Lyndsey Lorett: Dental Assisting
Lyndsey Lorett: Great.
Dawn Abriel: Um,
Dawn Abriel: You do not have housing insecurity, you have a place to live and what do you like to do for fun.
Lyndsey Lorett: Um, I just love to be around people and doing something fun and new every day.
Lyndsey Lorett: Mm hmm. And with the coronavirus and then you
Dawn Abriel: Get really then then you can stay home.
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: And with whom do you live.
Lyndsey Lorett: I live with my in laws.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, and you are female, and you identify as female
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes, I do.
Dawn Abriel: Do you have a smoke household smoke detector in your home.
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes, we do.
Dawn Abriel: Any firearms in the home.
Lyndsey Lorett: One, but it is locked up. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: And is the ammunition locked in a different place than that guns.
Dawn Abriel: Yes, it
Dawn Abriel: And you're sexually active.
Lyndsey Lorett: I am not I am broken down there. You don't want to go down there.
Lyndsey Lorett: It's
Lyndsey Lorett: Been out
Dawn Abriel: Here.
Dawn Abriel: I know
Dawn Abriel: no fun at all. So your group is going to be Tuesday morning at seven o'clock.
Lyndsey Lorett: That's amazing. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Every Tuesday.
Dawn Abriel: And before you get in, you have to have filled out a survey called the BAM, you might have gotten an email talking about it. The brief addiction monitor
Dawn Abriel: Okay, so after we're dying, you're going to go back to the virtual clinic and you're going to say the doc wants you to show me how to do the BAM.
Dawn Abriel: Okay. And I want you to take one more survey called the ACE adverse childhood events.
Dawn Abriel: It's one time. It's only 10 questions, you get through it very quickly.
Dawn Abriel: And so before you go to group, you go to virtual clinic, they check you in, make sure you did your BAM your urine drug screen and
Dawn Abriel: Then they will give you the unique zoom group number because it changes every week. The only way you get it is by checking in with virtual clinic.
Lyndsey Lorett: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: The virtual clinic is where you go for any questions with bright heart health.
Dawn Abriel: It's their job.
Dawn Abriel: To line you up with whoever it is, you need to talk to
Dawn Abriel: If you have a question about your medicine or the therapist. It's the virtual clinic, you go to
Dawn Abriel: I can't tell if we're still connected
Lyndsey Lorett: I'm sorry, are you there.
Dawn Abriel: I'm here. Lindsay, do you have any medicine left
Lyndsey Lorett: I do not
Dawn Abriel: Okay, so I'm going to give you enough to get you to Tuesday.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, and
Dawn Abriel: The way the program works is you show up for group I write a prescription for you.
Lyndsey Lorett: Okay, perfect.
Lyndsey Lorett: Now I get one on one counseling.
Dawn Abriel: I will just about to tell you
Lyndsey Lorett: Oh, okay.
Dawn Abriel: Let me just finish this order for you.
Lyndsey Lorett: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: I thought, while you were gone. I'd go ahead and get your medicine ordered
Dawn Abriel: I hope that
Dawn Abriel: I'm going to be sending you an email and it will have a lot of important numbers and and
Dawn Abriel: Things about it and at the very bottom will be going to your cell phone number and she takes text. So you just say I'm, I'm a new Tuesday morning patient and I want to get started with individual therapy.
Lyndsey Lorett: Oh, okay.
Dawn Abriel: And if you don't do her, she'll call you so
Dawn Abriel: You should be able to get together pretty quickly.
Lyndsey Lorett: That's great.
Dawn Abriel: So I give he prescriptions electronic prescriptions.
Dawn Abriel: So, okay, I already did this for you.
Dawn Abriel: To get your Tuesday.
Lyndsey Lorett: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Three tablets in the morning and you put them under your tongue, you make sure you don't eat or drink anything right around that time so that they can really absorb they absorb under there's a network of vessels under your tongue that are real close to the surface.
Dawn Abriel: So they can take in medicine.
Dawn Abriel: Well, from that area. But as soon as that medicine comes up and hits your tongue. The enzymes break it down. And you don't get the benefit of the medicine.
Dawn Abriel: Oh no. So really, just let that slobber sit there
Lyndsey Lorett: Okay, and you you sent over the tablets.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah. Oh, and that's another thing.
Dawn Abriel: That I make the most mistakes I make are people who are on tablets.
Dawn Abriel: Oh, every single week. You cannot trust me, you have to say, Doc. Remember I'm tablets.
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes, I am very allergic to the strips like I was in treatment and my mouth swelled up like hitch on the movie. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: So here's the thing I tell people at the pharmacy don't take the package don't receive the package and tell the person there has opened it up and look to see that there's something in there that does not have that it's tablets without in the locks on
Lyndsey Lorett: Tablet line that you like.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, once you touch the package, they will not take it back.
Really
Dawn Abriel: They won't, they're not allowed to it's against the law.
Lyndsey Lorett: Oh, okay. What if they get it wrong.
Dawn Abriel: That's why you do not touch the package. You say,
Dawn Abriel: Please open the package and make sure it's
Dawn Abriel: buprenorphine alone.
Dawn Abriel: Okay tablets.
Lyndsey Lorett: Got it.
Lyndsey Lorett: All right. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Now I will tell you that
Dawn Abriel: as we as we go along and you do the tapering I might switch you over to a film that has known the lock zone in it.
Lyndsey Lorett: Are you there.
Dawn Abriel: Uh huh, I'm here.
Lyndsey Lorett: Okay, sorry.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, so when you're in group there can't be anyone walking around in the background.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, because if someone accidentally sees someone they know in group that would just be awful right just a huge violation of HIPAA and you're going to go back to virtual clinic after we're done. And you're going to ask them, How do I do the brief addiction monitor the BAM.
Dawn Abriel: And I do the the ACE right
Dawn Abriel: Okay. And once a month right heart health will send you a manila envelope. It looks like this.
Dawn Abriel: When you get it, do not open it. If you open it, it's null and void. They won't use it. You've got to go to the pharmacy to do your, your urine drug screen. But if you go to virtual clinic and you say, Hey, I got this in the mail. What do I do
Lyndsey Lorett: Uh huh. You
Dawn Abriel: Open it in front of them and you'll take out one of these, you'll open this and there's a urine cup in here.
Lyndsey Lorett: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: You take the urine cup to the bathroom, not your phone. We don't need to see up just go to the bathroom, come back and you'll hold the cup up to the camera and you'll turn it
Dawn Abriel: Okay, will read the results.
Lyndsey Lorett: And that's it.
Dawn Abriel: Once a month your urine drug screen. So if for some reason you don't get one.
Dawn Abriel: Go to the virtual clinic and say, there must be something wrong with my address. Maybe you guys don't have it right
Lyndsey Lorett: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: It's really up to you because if you don't do a urine drug screen, you don't do a Bam, they don't let you into group.
Lyndsey Lorett: Okay, okay.
Dawn Abriel: It's real important. So if you change addresses, make sure that bright heart health, are some of the first people who get that information.
Sure can.
Dawn Abriel: I have to send you our can by law. Whenever I prescribe buprenorphine. We have to prescribe Narcan and I recommend that you get them you have them in your purse in your car.
Lyndsey Lorett: I didn't. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: I've saved lives.
Dawn Abriel: How it knows it's just really wonderful.
Dawn Abriel: When I first started doing it. I had a young lady who was sitting in her car like you are saw someone pass out with a needle in his arm.
Dawn Abriel: She went
Dawn Abriel: And saved his life while we were in group.
Lyndsey Lorett: Wow, that's got to be a cool feeling as a recovering addict, to be able to do that. Yeah, yeah.
Dawn Abriel: It's really tickled.
Lyndsey Lorett: Yeah, so
Dawn Abriel: I'm at some point in the real near future, and if you can do it today. Go get your labs drawn
Dawn Abriel: Yes, because I need to know baseline, mostly, I like to look at liver function tests so
Lyndsey Lorett: Hey,
Dawn Abriel: Go get that done.
Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Do you have any questions.
Lyndsey Lorett: Um, no, I'm just really thankful that you are my doctor
Lyndsey Lorett: And that I can. I feel very comfortable about going forward in this journey. Um, I really am ready to put in some work and
Lyndsey Lorett: Ready for things to change. So I appreciate
Dawn Abriel: Well, I'm, I'm, it's been a pleasure to meet you.
Dawn Abriel: If, by chance, you're taking the three tablets in the morning.
Dawn Abriel: Are you still with me. Lindsay
Lyndsey Lorett: Yes, I am with you.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, good, because your picture is frozen. But as long as you can hear me and and it's not it something's wrong. It's not doing what you needed to do.
Dawn Abriel: Go to the virtual clinic and they will get ahold of me, but you really won't know if it's
Dawn Abriel: Working for you, it'll take about two or three days.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, before you know with those three pills are are doing for you.
Dawn Abriel: Okay cuz they last so long in your system.
Lyndsey Lorett: Right, I'm willing to this is something new and many, many years that I have not been told to do. So I am willing to try
Dawn Abriel: Okay, yeah.
Dawn Abriel: The only time I've ever seen people getting it divided up is for people who have end stage cancer.
Dawn Abriel: Wow, so
So,
Dawn Abriel: Let's see, it might simplify your life and it makes tapering much easier.
Lyndsey Lorett: I am so ready to taper.
Dawn Abriel: Okie doke of all right.
Lyndsey Lorett: Thank you so much for your help.
Dawn Abriel: You bet.
I will. Good day.
Dawn Abriel: Okay. Bye bye.
Dawn Abriel: Alright, so
Dawn Abriel: I think hers is simply filling in the bubbles.
Dawn Abriel: And so I'm going to
Dawn Abriel: Stop this and I'm going to start it again with the next intake which will be in a few minutes.
Dawn Abriel: And that's going to get his name, but let's see if I can do it on dashboard.
Dawn Abriel: No, they're not putting it in here anymore.
Dawn Abriel: It's not in here.
Dawn Abriel: Hey, hold on a second. I need to say something for the transcriptionist IT'S MARCH 14 2020. This is Joshua say your last name for me love
Nyah,
Dawn Abriel: Nyah, righty. Alrighty, now you're ready. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: I have a fighting chance of not massacring it later. Now you're Roddy and living in Albuquerque. So you are greater than 17 miles.
Dawn Abriel: Away.
Dawn Abriel: I have to ask you the last time you had any kind of opioid
Joshua Nyarady: On today, I
Dawn Abriel: Was yeah
Joshua Nyarady: Sentinel
Joshua Nyarady: Fine fentanyl pills.
Dawn Abriel: Okay.
Joshua Nyarady: I'm really scared and nervous to stop because it's terrible. It's one of the worst feelings. I've ever experienced.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, although
Dawn Abriel: Given the way they're contaminated with car fentanyl right now.
Dawn Abriel: You should be petrified that
Dawn Abriel: That you haven't overdosed.
Dawn Abriel: There.
Dawn Abriel: Anyway, I don't need to go into that. So what's your dosage these days.
Joshua Nyarady: I don't know. I'm doing about a pill and a half to two pills a day what they're telling me is
Joshua Nyarady: What be considered like the knockoff of the 30 milligram oxycodone, but they're way stronger than that.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, so here's the thing with going on to switching from fentanyl to buprenorphine since there's no we don't know what the dose is
Dawn Abriel: I don't know how to match it with how much Suboxone to give you. So we're going to have to fiddle with it. We're going to have to stay in touch. Over the next few days and make sure you're getting enough buprenorphine.
Dawn Abriel: For northeast is a long acting opioids.
Dawn Abriel: Okay. Your system 24 to 36 hours. So you take the, the film under your tongue.
Dawn Abriel: And you let it sit there
Dawn Abriel: For
Dawn Abriel: At least two minutes. You cannot eat, drink or smoke. Especially, you can't smoke before you take your medicine.
Dawn Abriel: The Smoking cramps down your blood vessels.
Dawn Abriel: And so those blood vessels that are in charge of absorbing the medicine, don't do a good job and you don't get the full benefit of the medicine. So really no smoking before you
Joshua Nyarady: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Before you take it and
Dawn Abriel: Do you ever an IV drug user
Know,
Dawn Abriel: I'd saved you some heartache.
Dawn Abriel: But you you have noticed that you've had to take more and more opioid to get the same. Yeah. And he had an overdose.
Know,
Dawn Abriel: And no medical complications or legal issues around your drug use.
No.
Dawn Abriel: Super
Dawn Abriel: Has your life sort of revolved around finding it using it, thinking about it.
Joshua Nyarady: I'm somewhat. Yeah, it's like, God, I have projects that I'm supposed to be doing around the house and it's like if I don't if I don't have any I can't work. I can't do them.
Dawn Abriel: Okay. And how old were you when you started using any illicit drug
Joshua Nyarady: I mean 1415, I guess.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, and what did you start with
Joshua Nyarady: I started using cocaine.
Dawn Abriel: Not marijuana
Joshua Nyarady: Now, I never, never got into marijuana
Dawn Abriel: Really, isn't that interesting.
Dawn Abriel: And when did you start with the opioids.
Joshua Nyarady: Um, about a year ago I had, I had a surgery on my
Joshua Nyarady: On my hand.
Joshua Nyarady: And
Joshua Nyarady: I just I used
Joshua Nyarady: Then, and then it just kind of like the way it felt, and I knew somebody that had some extra regular same Megan oxycodone pills and and then before you know and you know, two, three months later, is like, Oh, we have these and okay
And so now
Dawn Abriel: Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: So we, we know from the brain research that's out there.
Dawn Abriel: That
Dawn Abriel: And
Dawn Abriel: Because of your childhood something else, something was going on in your childhood that made you predisposed more likely to become addicted to opioids.
Dawn Abriel: Sorry opioids change your brain. So
Dawn Abriel: It is a brain disease. It's not that you don't have willpower. It's not that you're a bad person. It's a function of that chemical and and the nasty things it does to your brain. So
Dawn Abriel: We. We. That's our philosophy. I mean, that's how we treat people as though they have
Dawn Abriel: A disease that we can help them.
Dawn Abriel: You know, eventually get off of all the drugs that they want to get off of
Dawn Abriel: And and i and i gotta tell you there's a very funny thing that happens.
Dawn Abriel: You're going to eventually, you know, in a maybe the end of April or so you're going to start tapering off your Suboxone very, very slowly.
Dawn Abriel: But when you get down to a particular dose and there's no predicting what that is, but all of a sudden your hand might start to hurt because there's this weird wiring in the brain where it remembers that dose of opioid connected to that pain.
Dawn Abriel: And people experience.
Dawn Abriel: The same pain they had when they started the opioid
Dawn Abriel: Wow. Isn't that crazy
Joshua Nyarady: That is crazy.
Joshua Nyarady: Yeah, never would have thought that
Dawn Abriel: So it's the brain playing tricks on you. Your hands not hurting
Dawn Abriel: It's not coming from the periphery to the brain. It's the brain doing a closed loop in there. Okay, so don't be surprised. I
Dawn Abriel: Just like to warn people so there
Dawn Abriel: Any change in relationships and work because of the opioid use
Joshua Nyarady: Know, I've managed to keep all that
Joshua Nyarady: In a good standing.
Dawn Abriel: And is this the first program you opinion. Yes, it is.
Dawn Abriel: Well, let's hope it's the last
I agree.
Dawn Abriel: Any anxiety or sleep issues.
Joshua Nyarady: Yeah, I do have trouble sleeping.
Joshua Nyarady: Oh yeah, anxiety,
Joshua Nyarady: I mean, yeah, I mean I pretty much like stressed out all the time because I'm you know I'm basically hiding something from my job and
Joshua Nyarady: I worry about losing my job is in the house so
Dawn Abriel: Sure we sure see that a lot. Have you ever been hospitalized for a mental illness.
Joshua Nyarady: I know
Dawn Abriel: And what would you say your stress level is right now, mild, moderate, or severe
Joshua Nyarady: Probably severe
Dawn Abriel: And that's
Dawn Abriel: Let's see people finding out about the opioid use
Dawn Abriel: And anything else relationships financial school
Joshua Nyarady: Not really. Financial but I had a flood. A couple of months back, and I'm trying to do a renovation on the House to fix it all and it's it's just kind of everything's just overwhelming and I just realized that this is just getting in the way of of everything.
Dawn Abriel: Isn't it awful, the way you think a project is going to be this little thing and then you can't do this until you do this, this and this.
Joshua Nyarady: Yes, that's, that's exactly how it's been it's been
Dawn Abriel: Yes.
Joshua Nyarady: Just taken so long. It is I, you know, I'm down to one bathroom in the houses just crazy. It's just
Dawn Abriel: Ya know, I really feel you
Dawn Abriel: We have a project going on all they wanted to do is put a roof on my house flat roof to peek roof to put insulation in there.
Joshua Nyarady: Huh.
Dawn Abriel: I have to change out my furnace system to put a roof on my house.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, I feel you.
Joshua Nyarady: Know I, no, no.
Dawn Abriel: Okay not, this is not about me.
Dawn Abriel: And your self esteem.
Joshua Nyarady: Um,
Joshua Nyarady: It's probably it's it's fairly low, it's not. I mean, it's not super low but i mean i know i could be better for sure.
Okay.
Dawn Abriel: No.
Joshua Nyarady: Definitely not proud of myself.
Well,
Dawn Abriel: Again, remember
Dawn Abriel: This is not all your fault.
Dawn Abriel: Because of your childhood, something was going on where you didn't get big. I'll tell you the difference when people get surgery they get out opioids. Most people say
Dawn Abriel: Oh,
Dawn Abriel: It made me a little woozy
Dawn Abriel: And it took it took the edge off the pain and then I forgot to take the next dose there's there's those kind of people and then they're the kind of people who say
Dawn Abriel: Oh my goodness, that felt like a warm hug that felt like the nicest thing that's happened to me.
Dawn Abriel: Now, that there are set up for addiction.
Joshua Nyarady: Yeah yeah
Dawn Abriel: So,
Dawn Abriel: I want you to, I want you to not be mean to yourself. Okay. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: I know I all I have to do is say that right and it'll magically go away.
Joshua Nyarady: Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: No, I'm not that stupid. I know it's gonna take that that's what the surgery is for, right, because being on a soapbox on is like a little window of opportunity you had this long acting opioid where you can get your life together. You can do the remodeling.
Dawn Abriel: And but it doesn't change the brain wiring. The only thing that changes the brain wiring is the therapy and being in group. So take advantage of it. You'll never get therapy cheaper than having a paid for in this program. This is like
Dawn Abriel: An incredible opportunity.
Dawn Abriel: So make them really work for you.
Joshua Nyarady: Okay, okay.
Dawn Abriel: So we have gotten long winded today.
Dawn Abriel: Do you know what your blood type is
Joshua Nyarady: I do not. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: I have to list off a whole bunch of things, stop me if any of them apply to you.
Joshua Nyarady: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Any head head trauma I ear, nose and throat problems. Any lung problems with Nima pneumonias or chronic bronchitis.
Dawn Abriel: Muscle joint or bone problems thyroid diabetes, anemia, cancer, HIV sexually transmitted diseases or ever test positive with tuberculosis skin problems with new moles rashes.
Dawn Abriel: Epilepsy seizures headache stroke bipolar depression hallucinations, delusions suicidal thoughts or suicidal attempts get problems with cirrhosis GERD gallbladder disease heartburn hemorrhoids pancreatitis.
Joshua Nyarady: Of the girl that the that's the acid reflux right now.
Dawn Abriel: That's replace gastric
Dawn Abriel: Reflux Disease.
Joshua Nyarady: Yes, I have acid reflux, I take a map Rizal every day.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, remind me that when I go to medicine.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, and your kidneys bladder and penis work the way they're supposed to. Yes. And you don't have hearing aids. You don't have allergic.
Dawn Abriel: chronic sinus infections, you don't have dentures. You weren't born with a heart murmur, you don't have an arrhythmia hypertension or blood clots.
Dawn Abriel: Okey doke. Do you have anything. I didn't ask you about
Dawn Abriel: No ready readiness, move it along.
Dawn Abriel: And any surgeries.
Joshua Nyarady: I'm just the just that one that I was talking about the it was carpal tunnel and they they removed a ganglion cyst.
Joshua Nyarady: That was last year.
Dawn Abriel: Has it has it stayed stayed away.
Joshua Nyarady: Um, the cyst yeah actually have a sister, the carpal tunnel.
Dawn Abriel: Well,
Joshua Nyarady: I guess actually both have
Dawn Abriel: Good, good.
Dawn Abriel: Is the SIS tended
Dawn Abriel: Anyway, um, yeah.
Joshua Nyarady: I have the pain back for the cyst, but I don't have assessed so
Joshua Nyarady: And I were there.
Dawn Abriel: It's really, really, really hard to get all of that membrane that is the cyst, and they grow back.
Joshua Nyarady: Yeah, that's what they told me it would happen to
Dawn Abriel: Good. I'm glad I'm not the only one who told you that bad news.
Dawn Abriel: Is your mother alive and in good health.
Joshua Nyarady: I'm adopted so
Joshua Nyarady: I don't know my real MOTHER'S ALIVE.
Dawn Abriel: Got you. I will lips highway. Oh, I know.
Dawn Abriel: I just did that one.
Dawn Abriel: Anyone around you addicted.
Joshua Nyarady: No.
Dawn Abriel: Oh, this is weird.
Dawn Abriel: I can't change my window.
Dawn Abriel: Even if I make my screen bigger me try doing it all the way this happens every once in a while in this program.
Dawn Abriel: Huh.
Dawn Abriel: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Oh my goodness.
Dawn Abriel: Family so okay so let's do
Dawn Abriel: Social History. Tell me about smoking.
Dawn Abriel: Tobacco
Joshua Nyarady: I smoked a long time ago. I, I quit. Many, many years ago.
Dawn Abriel: What a smart man and alcohol.
Joshua Nyarady: I've never had a never had a thing for alcohol really
Joshua Nyarady: I'll drink so easily every once in a while, but even then I I sometimes don't drink so
Dawn Abriel: Okay. And do you eat healthy meals.
Joshua Nyarady: I do
Dawn Abriel: You get regular exercise coke.
Joshua Nyarady: Oh I'm fine, our regular exercise now.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, do you take an aspirin every day. No. Do you have a household smoke detector.
Joshua Nyarady: Yes.
Dawn Abriel: You keep any firearms in your home.
Joshua Nyarady: I do not
Dawn Abriel: Do you wear your seat belts. Yes. Are you sexually active. Yes.
Dawn Abriel: And you're male and you identify as male. Yes.
Dawn Abriel: Did you ever use benzodiazepines recreationally Valium Ambien Zandi bars. Okay, and you were born and raised where
Joshua Nyarady: Albuquerque, New Mexico.
Dawn Abriel: What's your caffeine intake, like I say, as I drink my coffee.
Joshua Nyarady: To a probably just really one cup a day. Okay.
And
Dawn Abriel: How many children do you have, and what are their ages.
Joshua Nyarady: Two children 13 and 10
Joshua Nyarady: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: How far did you go in school.
Joshua Nyarady: Ninth grade.
I got a G game.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, tell me your work history. What kinds of jobs do you mostly get
Joshua Nyarady: Um, I've had everything when I was younger. I've had everything I've settled down
Joshua Nyarady: I was a truck driver for about 12 years and now I'm a PC tech
Dawn Abriel: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: So no history of methamphetamine. No, but you did cocaine from 14. When was the last time you did cocaine.
Joshua Nyarady: Probably when I was 1920
Dawn Abriel: Okay, what do you like to do for fun.
Joshua Nyarady: Uh, well, it's really
Dawn Abriel: Sad to
Joshua Nyarady: Watch TV.
Joshua Nyarady: Not much of a social person really
Dawn Abriel: And have you ever used create them.
Joshua Nyarady: You know, I don't know what that is.
Dawn Abriel: Good. If you don't know all the better and with whom do you live.
Joshua Nyarady: I live along with Mike well with my kids. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: And do you have a partner.
Joshua Nyarady: No, I'm, I'm pretty much saying all right now. Right.
Dawn Abriel: Now I have to read a never really long list.
Dawn Abriel: That
Dawn Abriel: It's called a review of systems and just stop me if any of them apply to you. Okay, these are
Dawn Abriel: These are chronic things. Whoops, I sometimes
Dawn Abriel: I did that.
Dawn Abriel: Oh, I see my hair is brand new. I
Dawn Abriel: Got the fancy ones.
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, now figure out later.
Dawn Abriel: thievery night sweats chills cold intolerance, fatigue, weight gain drinking a lot. Ed and a lot red eyes double vision, blurred vision loss of vision changing vision.
Dawn Abriel: difficulty hearing, hearing loss ear drainage are ringing in your ears bloody nose chronic congestion. So our lips are mouse or tongue.
Dawn Abriel: lumps in your neck stiff neck neck pain, difficulty breathing cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, irregular heartbeat. Can't breathe lying down swelling in your ankles varicose veins, diarrhea, constipation, do you have constipation from the fentanyl
Dawn Abriel: Oh, yes.
Joshua Nyarady: Yes I do, actually.
Dawn Abriel: Vomiting rectal pain, abdominal pain.
Dawn Abriel: painful urination blood in your urine Pina lot not being enough changing hair, skin or nail texture new moles are itching, muscle pain back pain tender points muscle cramps limb.
Dawn Abriel: Headaches vertigo lightheadedness fainting numbness, tingling weakness tremor lack of coordination difficulty speaking
Dawn Abriel: Changing mood depression sadness interfering with function and we will put positive for anxiety and nervousness symbol put positive for sleep disturbance and remind me is it's getting to sleep. It's a problem.
Joshua Nyarady: Yeah, getting to sleep and then when I do get to sleep. I wake up like,
Joshua Nyarady: rather quickly. I feel like I've. It's been a long time and then it would be like 30 minutes or an hour.
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: Suicide thoughts hopelessness seeing or hearing things that other people don't. And easy bruising anything in there that I need to
Joshua Nyarady: If we could go back to the the sweating and whatnot. Like when I when I
Joshua Nyarady: Don't do any for a while, then yeah, I get that.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, that's
Joshua Nyarady: Okay, okay.
Joshua Nyarady: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah withdrawal symptoms don't count in
Dawn Abriel: Particular ok so now we'll do your medicines.
Dawn Abriel: And mentioned your greed medicine.
Joshua Nyarady: It's a mattress all it's a 20 milligram over the counter.
Dawn Abriel: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Anything else
Dawn Abriel: And you take that every day.
Yes.
Dawn Abriel: It's, um,
Dawn Abriel: I would sure like to see you.
Dawn Abriel: Not have to take it.
Joshua Nyarady: Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: The heart. The heart birds a drag, but it because it changes the pH in your stomach so dramatically.
Dawn Abriel: It, it kills bacteria later on in your gut.
Dawn Abriel: And you didn't, you don't have a healthy gut so
Dawn Abriel: That's a whole different discussion. Do you have any allergies to medicines penicillin.
Dawn Abriel: In Silicon
Dawn Abriel: The most common
Dawn Abriel: And what happens when you have it.
Joshua Nyarady: I don't know. It's unknown. I was in my adoption file. So we just stuck with that.
Okay.
Dawn Abriel: If you ever need it.
Dawn Abriel: They can do a little skin test, they can put a teensy weensy bit just under the skin and if you have a big reaction, then you have a true allergy.
Joshua Nyarady: Oh, I didn't know that.
Dawn Abriel: Uh huh. But if you don't, most people say, Oh, I've got an allergy to penicillin and really all they had was a reaction, not an allergy, like they have a little upset stomach. That's not an allergic reaction that's you did it on an empty stomach. Right.
Dawn Abriel: But since we can't go back and figure that out. But if you ever really need it. And that's what they would do.
Joshua Nyarady: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: We have a lot of different antibiotics. Nowadays, so it's it's hardly ever necessary, but there are one or two bugs that only penicillin will get
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: And I have to ask you questions about your functioning and cognition. So you bathe dress feed, go to the bathroom and go from one place to another, all by your lonesome self.
Yes.
Dawn Abriel: You know who you are, what time it is. You make your own decisions. You have a memory that's appropriate to your age, you can focus and you can read
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: When I do too many of these in a row. I get pretty silly.
Dawn Abriel: I gotta, you know, mix it up for my own entertainment.
Dawn Abriel: Do you know how to get your pulse.
Joshua Nyarady: Uh, yeah, I mean,
Joshua Nyarady: First time
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, the easiest way. Yeah, you can't push too hard. It's right in front of that muscle easiest way is to go to the opposite side you have it.
Joshua Nyarady: Yeah, I got it. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: I'll tell you when to start counting now.
Dawn Abriel: Stop.
Seven.
Dawn Abriel: Alrighty.
Dawn Abriel: And how tall are you,
Five nine.
Dawn Abriel: And current weight.
Dawn Abriel: Now we have to do a
Dawn Abriel: Little bitty physical exam.
Dawn Abriel: So we can do on camera.
Dawn Abriel: Get real close to the camera. Pull your eyelid down and let me see under your eyelid.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, good. Let's go, move your eyes, all the way to the right, left.
Dawn Abriel: Up and down okay look straight ahead. Breathe out of either side of you knows
Dawn Abriel: Perfect. Stick your tongue out at me and whittle it side by side. Lovely. Close your mouth no job pain when you bite down your teeth bit normally
Dawn Abriel: When I see you swallow.
Dawn Abriel: I know swallowing demand.
Dawn Abriel: Although every time I tell someone to swallow. I have to swallow.
Dawn Abriel: And can I see you put your ear to your shoulder both sides. Yeah. And then back and forward then put your chin to your shoulder both sides. Lovely. Take a deep breath.
Dawn Abriel: Good. Okay. And I need you to push on your belly upper right upper left lower right lower left, there's no lumps or bumps or pain or problems in there.
Joshua Nyarady: No great
Dawn Abriel: Can I see you pull against your fingers.
Dawn Abriel: And then, can I see you tap your thumb with your fingers groovy. Now put take your you're on a phone or a tablet.
Joshua Nyarady: I'm on a
Dawn Abriel: Computer computer. Okay, yeah. Usually I like to see people's ankles to make sure there's no swelling their ankles.
Joshua Nyarady: Um,
Dawn Abriel: I don't know how easy
Joshua Nyarady: I mean, I'm sitting on the bed so
Dawn Abriel: Perfect. Okay, that's one
Day.
Dawn Abriel: I make you get your exercise in perfect. Okay. Joshua. Thank you very much. Yeah. Alright.
Dawn Abriel: So let's go over the program.
Dawn Abriel: you're committing to two hours a week, every week. So it's an hour of group, an hour of individual therapy. Okay I spared you all the instructions and I think all you have to do is fill out the bubbles fill in the bubbles.